It's been almost a year since former president Yanukovich fled his official residence, only days after having triumphantly presided over the inauguration of Sochi games, wrapped in the Ukraine flag.
From November 2013 through February 2014, despite the violent crackdown of security forces, a wide and sometimes conflicting political arc of demonstrators filled the Kiev's "Maidan" demanding Yanukovych's resignation, the end of corruption and a closer integration of Ukraine in Europe. The Maidan, Independence square, often used in previous decades for political gatherings, became known as the Euromaidan.
Yanukovych fled from office on February, 22nd, 2014. The next day, Ukrainian parliament issued a warrant for his arrest. Less than a year later, on January 12th, 2015, Interpol issued an official warrant for the arrest and extradiction of Yanukovych, his son and some of his former ministers on the suspect of "misappropriation, embezzlement or conversion of property by malversation". While current Ukrainian government led by President Petro Poroshenko would also like to charge Yanukovych for ordering security forces to fire on protesters in early 2014, Interpol is only focusing on alleged financial crimes. 
Those same crimes are the ones that Ukrainian reporters claimed a year ago to be vastly documented by a trail of paper they salvaged from Yanukovych abandoned presidential residence.
Fleeing the ever-increasing protests on the Euromaidan, Yanukovych with his family and aides left their 18th century villa, the Mezhyhirya. During World War II it was occupied by Nazi officials, then used as a summer residence by Communist officials before Yanukovych privatized it in 2002 upon becoming Prime Minister. 
On February 23rd, 2014, Parliament reclaimed the villa as state property, including its private zoo and luxury cars, and the Maidan committees presided over a constant stream of citizens exploring the opulent grounds for the first time in their life, surprised and embittered by the extent of Yanukovych's wealth. On Twitter and Facebook, they told the world what they found.
Among the first to explore the grounds were several Ukrainian reporters.
In the days before the Euromaidan, one of the biggest challenges for Ukrainian journalists was working in fear - they were used to being intimidated and threatened with impunity by the regime. They were also divided - because of the general climate in which they worked, colleagues couldn't easily collaborate or share their findings with each other.
When the first reporters arrived on the villa grounds, they found thousands of sheets of papers floating and immersed in sea water, some of them already too crumpled or damaged to be read, while most were still readable if they acted quickly. They could see they were bank accounts details, transaction reports, money transfers, bribes, details of contracts for public works, material testifying to the dense web of favoritism and corruption of which Yanukovych had been long suspected of - including a blacklist of journalists.
And so started a silent, unified effort, where most of the reporters on the scene, with the help of divers and the advice of librarians and archivists, rushed to salvage the documents from the freezing water. They placed them one by one to dry on the floor of a big hangar, and proceeded to photograph and scan them, trying to regroup them according to their original folders. Ultimately, they built the most extensive public archive of Yanukovych documents - YanukovychLeaks - that went online so fast, no one could question or retract the documents publication.
And Hanna Kozlowksa for Foreign Policy met some of the reporters who worked on the files. Only a few days after the first findings, the number of individual documents found in water or almost burned had reached 40,000 in number.
The YanukovychLeaks project is now a beautiful short documentary, by Anna Babinets and Olga Kraynik. One of the highlights is the crucial moment when official investigators come to claim the original documents and the work of reporters and volunteers. They work out an agreement to let the journalists digitize and publish them before turning them over to investigators.

