Tom Hayes is a former trader for UBS and Citigroup who was sentenced to fourteen years in prison for dishonestly driving manipulation of the London Interbank Offered Rate (Libor), a bank reported interest rate, to enhance his trading results.[1] He was found to have acted of his own accord, while Hayes asserted managers were aware of his actions, and even condoned them.
In 2001, after time as an intern at UBS, Hayes joined Royal Bank of Scotland's trainee programme, at the interest rate derivatives desk.[1] After working for Royal Bank of Scotland as a junior trader,[5] he was headhunted by Royal Bank of Canada in 2004, and, upon moving there, he assumed greater responsibility.[1] After two years at RBC, he moved to UBS in late 2006.
Hayes was placed in the Tokyo office of UBS, where he began making trades involving the discrepancies between the Libor rate and Japanese interest rates.
Hayes turned down an offer from Goldman Sachs in 2008, but in 2009, accepted an offer from Citigroup; the bank gave him a $3 million signing bonus
Hayes graduated with an MBA from Hult International Business School studying at the London campus.
In 2010, Hayes was fired by Citi for his Libor activities. After being fired, he moved back to England, where he day traded with his Citi bonus.
On December 11th, 2012, Hayes was arrested by British authorities for his involvement in manipulating Libor rates, and on December 19th, he was charged by the United States for the same crime.
Having exhausted all avenues of appeal, in May 2014, Hayes instructed solicitor Karen Todner to make an application for review by the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC).
ICE LIBOR was previously known as BBA LIBOR until February 1, 2014, the date on which the ICE Benchmark Administration (IBA) took over the Administration of LIBOR.
On 27 July 2012, the Financial Times published an article by a former trader which stated that Libor manipulation had been common since at least 1991.
On 28 November 2012, the Finance Committee of the Bundestag held a hearing to learn more about the issue.
The British Bankers' Association (BBA) said on 25 September 2012 that it would transfer oversight of Libor to UK regulators, as predicted by bank analysts, proposed by Financial Services Authority managing director Martin Wheatley's independent review recommendations.
The UK controls Libor through laws made in the UK Parliament. In particular, the Financial Services Act 2012 brings Libor under UK regulatory oversight and creates a criminal offence for knowingly or deliberately making false or misleading statements relating to benchmark-setting.
As of August 2015, UBS trader Tom Hayes was the only person convicted in connection with the Libor scandal. In the UK, six bankers accused over Libor were cleared in early 2016.